[Custom Metrics] Artifact type detection and logging (#5405)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/models.rst

.. |eval_importance_img| image:: _static/images/model_evaluation_feature_importance.png
   :width: 69%

> Evaluating on Custom Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluating with Custom Metrics
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If the default set of metrics is insufficient, you can specify a list of functions to the ``custom_metrics``
> argument of :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` to evaluate your models in ways that you see fit. Custom metric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the default set of metrics is insufficient, you can specify a list of ``custom_metrics`` functions to :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` to produce custom performance metrics for the models that you're evaluating. Custom metric
```

functions should accept two arguments: a DataFrame containing ``prediction`` and ``target`` columns, 

> and a dictionary of the default set of metrics. For a full list of default metrics, refer to the documentation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a dictionary containing the default set of metrics. For a full list of default metrics, refer to the documentation 
```

of :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()`.

The following `short example from the MLflow GitHub Repository
<https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/examples/evaluation/evaluate_with_custom_metrics.py>`_ 
uses :py:func:`mlflow.evaluate()` with a custom metric function to evaluate the performance of a regressor on the
`California Housing Dataset <https://www.dcc.fc.up.pt/~ltorgo/Regression/cal_housing.html>`_.
Note that custom metric functions can return both metrics and artifacts. It can either return a single

> dictionary of metrics, or two dictionaries representing metrics and artifacts.

Reviewer: The first sentence uses a plural (`custom metric functions`) and the second sentence uses a singular pronoun (`it`). Can we make these agree?

Author: Will change to plural. Thanks!

.. code-block:: py

    from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
    from sklearn.datasets import fetch_california_housing
    from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
    import numpy as np
    import mlflow
    import tempfile
    import os
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

    # loading the California housing dataset
    cali_housing = fetch_california_housing(as_frame=True)

    # split the dataset into train and test partitions
    X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
        cali_housing.data, cali_housing.target, test_size=0.2, random_state=123
    )

    # train the model
    lin_reg = LinearRegression().fit(X_train, y_train)

    # creating the evaluation dataframe
    eval_data = X_test.copy()
    eval_data["target"] = y_test

    def example_custom_metric_fn(eval_df, builtin_metrics):
        """
        This example custom metric function creates a metric based on the ``prediction`` and
        ``target`` columns in ``eval_df`` and a metric derived from existing metrics in

>         ``builtin_metrics``. In addition, it also generates and saves a scatter plot to a file
>         as an image artifact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ``builtin_metrics``. It also generates and saves a scatter plot to a file
        as an image artifact.
```

Reviewer: Can we also explain what this scatter plot represents?

        """
        metrics = {
            "squared_diff_plus_one": np.sum(np.abs(eval_df["prediction"] - eval_df["target"] + 1) ** 2),
            "sum_on_label_divided_by_two": builtin_metrics["sum_on_label"] / 2,
        }
        plt.scatter(eval_df["prediction"], eval_df["target"])
        plt.xlabel("Targets")
        plt.ylabel("Predictions")
        plt.title("Targets vs. Predictions")
        plot_path = os.path.join(tmp_dir, "example_scatter_plot.png")
        plt.savefig(plot_path)
        artifacts = {"example_scatter_plot_artifact": plot_path}
        return metrics, artifacts

    with mlflow.start_run() as run, tempfile.TemporaryDirectory() as tmp_dir:
        mlflow.sklearn.log_model(lin_reg, "model")
        model_uri = mlflow.get_artifact_uri("model")
        result = mlflow.evaluate(
            model=model_uri,
            data=eval_data,
            targets="target",
            model_type="regressor",
            dataset_name="cali_housing",
            evaluators=["default"],
            custom_metrics=[example_custom_metric_fn],
        )

> For a more comprehensive usage of custom metrics, refer to `this example from the MLflow GitHub Repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a more comprehensive custom metrics usage example, refer to `this example from the MLflow GitHub Repository
```

<https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/examples/evaluation/evaluate_with_custom_metrics_comprehensive.py>`_.

> Any additional information about model evaluation behaviors and outputs is available in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional information about model evaluation behaviors and outputs is available in the
```

    X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(
        cali_housing.data, cali_housing.target, test_size=0.2, random_state=123
    )

    # train the model
    lin_reg = LinearRegression().fit(X_train, y_train)

    # creating the evaluation dataframe
    eval_data = X_test.copy()
    eval_data["target"] = y_test

    def example_custom_metric_fn(eval_df, builtin_metrics):
        """
        This example custom metric function creates a metric based on the ``prediction`` and
        ``target`` columns in ``eval_df`` and a metric derived from existing metrics in
        ``builtin_metrics``. It also generates and saves a scatter plot that visualizes the
        relationship between the predictions and targets for the given model to a file as an
        image artifact.
        """
        metrics = {
            "squared_diff_plus_one": np.sum(np.abs(eval_df["prediction"] - eval_df["target"] + 1) ** 2),
            "sum_on_label_divided_by_two": builtin_metrics["sum_on_label"] / 2,
        }
        plt.scatter(eval_df["prediction"], eval_df["target"])
        plt.xlabel("Targets")
        plt.ylabel("Predictions")
        plt.title("Targets vs. Predictions")

>         plot_path = os.path.join(tmp_dir, "example_scatter_plot.png")

Reviewer 2: Can we create tmp_dir inside the custom metric function in this example? In general the function should not access anything other than eval_df and builtin_metrics, to make pickling the function much easier. This would be useful for distributed processing in the future.

Author: Uhmm, yeah, I did that originally. However, the problem with having the tmp_dir context inside the function is that once the function finishes execution, it deletes the directory. This is problematic because later on in our code, we will need to reference to those produced artifacts. Perhaps we could introduce another argument to custom metric functions called `tmp_dir`.

Reviewer 2: I see. In this case, I think we need to change the API to provide this directory as part of the custom metric function argument, since we do expect users to write data to disk, in addition to the tuple of dicts returned.
